# Warehouse Layout Optimization - The Ignisterra Case

Wouldn't you feel that something is wrong if you left your higher quality products mixed with those you don't care about so much? How would you feel if, in addition to that, you are leaving them in a place that you know will be damaged in the blink of an eye, such as the open air, for example? Well, that's how the managers of [Ignisterra](https://www.ignisterra.com/en/), the world's largest lenga producer, felt when they realized that the most profitable inventory was being stored outdoors in a place prone to rain, such as southern Chile. Thus, together with students of Industrial Engineering from my university, we were asked to analyze the situation associated with inventory management in the distribution and manufacturing plant of Ignisterra.

## The Problem

At the beginning, the situation was quite ambiguous: We had to completely analyze the process of receiving, storing and dispatching cargo in order to understand exactly what was happening in that warehouse. However, by working closely with the operations manager, the warehouse manager and the plant workers, we were able to understand how these processes were handled and how this company continued to operate normally in the face of this alleged inventory problem for which we were asked for advice.

Within our situation analysis process, the first question we asked ourselves was why does this company keep all its raw material, independent of quality? Clearly Ignisterra was storing material with little profitability and neglecting valuable material. At that time, it was explained to us that there were [several types of wood](documents/catalog_number.pdf), based on their quality, cutting thickness, density, etc., and we were also explained that one of its main business policies is the use of all wood extracted from Tierra del Fuego, regardless of type or quality. This made us understand that the wood superhabit could be mainly of low quality wood, but we had to do a deeper analysis to validate that assumption.

